# Imaging molecules in their native environment: cryo-electron tomgraphy imaging of pcdh15 in mouse stereocilia

## Abstract

Mechanosensory transduction (MT), the conversion of mechanical stimuli into
electrical signals, underpins hearing and balance and is carried out within hair
cells in the inner ear. Hair cells harbor actin-filled stereocilia, arranged in
rows of descending heights, where the tips of stereocilia are connected to their
taller neighbors by a filament composed of protocadherin 15 (PCDH15) and
cadherin 23 (CDH23), deemed the ‘tip link’. Tension exerted on the tip link
opens an ion channel at the tip of the shorter stereocilia, thus converting
mechanical force into an electrical signal. While biochemical and structural
studies have provided insights into the molecular composition and structure of
isolated portions of the tip link, the architecture, location and conformational
states of intact tip links, on stereocilia, remains unknown. Here we report in
situ cryo-electron microscopy imaging of the tip link in mouse stereocilia. We
observe individual PCDH15 molecules at the tip and shaft of stereocilia and
determine their stoichiometry, conformational heterogeneity, and their complexes
with other filamentous proteins, perhaps including CDH23. The PCDH15 complexes
occur in clusters, frequently with more than one copy of PCDH15 at the tip of
stereocilia, suggesting that tip links might consist of more than one copy of
PCDH15 complexes and, by extension, might include multiple MT complexes.

## Biography

Johannes Elferich is currently a postdoctoral fellow at the UMass Chen Medical
School in the laboratory of Nikolaus Grigorieff. He obtained his PhD in 2015 in
the laboratory of Ujwal Shinde at Oregon Health and Science University working
on pH-mediated activation of the mammalian serine protease furin. He then joined
Eric Gouaux at Oregon Health and Science University to study mechano-sensory
transduction during hearing. Working together with Jingpeng Gai and Sarah Clark,
he solved the structures of the PCDH15/Lhfpl5 complex that forms the lower end
of the mammalian tip-link and of the motor protein prestin that underlies
acustic amplification in the inner ear of mammals. They also used cryo-electron
tomography to study the localization, stoichiometry and structural flexibility
of the tip-link in stereocilia extracted from the inner ear of mice, furthering
our understanding of hearing by taking direct images of single molecules of the
underlying protein machinery. In 2021 he joined Nikolaus Grigorieff to work on
developing methods and software for high-throughput molecule detection in
cryo-electron micropraphs for visual proteomics.

---

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License</a>.
